.TH SLIPWAY 1 "2026-04-14" "slipway 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
slipway \- machine-wide port-range registry for local dev
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slipway
.I subcommand
[\fIargs\fR] [\fIflags\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B slipway
hands out size-aligned port ranges to local dev apps so that multiple
stacks on one machine do not collide. State lives in a JSON registry
(default: \fI~/.config/slipway/registry.json\fR); mutating operations
are serialized through a lockdir.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.BR claim " \fIapp\fR \fIsize\fR [--dry-run] [--json]"
Reserve the next free size-aligned range for \fIapp\fR. Exits 6 if the
app is already claimed, 4 if the range is exhausted.
.TP
.BR reclaim " \fIapp\fR \fIsize\fR [--no-move] [--json]"
Atomically release and re-claim \fIapp\fR at a new \fIsize\fR. With
\fB--no-move\fR, grow/shrink in place or fail.
.TP
.BR ensure " \fIapp\fR \fIsize\fR [--json]"
Idempotent claim: claim if missing, noop if already at \fIsize\fR, exit 6
if already claimed at a different size.
.TP
.BR get " \fIapp\fR [--json]"
Print "START END" (or JSON). Exit 3 if unclaimed.
.TP
.BR port " \fIapp\fR [\fIoffset\fR]"
Print a single port (start + offset). Exits 2 if the offset falls
outside the claimed range.
.TP
.BR release " \fIapp\fR [--if-claimed]"
Free the app's range. With \fB--if-claimed\fR, missing apps are a no-op.
.TP
.B list [--json|--tsv]
Show all allocations. Default table, \fI--tsv\fR for piping.
.TP
.BR conflicts " \fIport\fR [--json]"
Show which app or reserved range holds \fIport\fR. Exit 3 if free.
.TP
.B doctor [--repair]
Sanity-check the registry: orphaned lock, out-of-range apps, overlaps.
\fI--repair\fR clears orphaned locks.
.TP
.BR caddy " \fIapp\fR [\fIsubdomain\fR] [\fIoffset\fR]"
Emit a Caddyfile fragment:
\fIsubdomain\fR.\fIapp\fR.localhost → localhost:start+offset.
Defaults: subdomain=\fIdev\fR, offset=0.
.TP
.B config [show]
.TQ
.BR config " port-range \fIstart\fR \fIend\fR"
Show registry config, or reconfigure the port_range (refuses if any
existing app would be orphaned).
.TP
.B version
Print slipway version.
.TP
.BR reserved " [list|--json]"
.TQ
.BR reserved " add \fIstart\fR \fIend\fR [\fInote\fR] [--force]"
.TQ
.BR reserved " remove \fIstart\fR"
Manage the reserved-ranges list. \fBadd\fR refuses to overlap a claimed
app without \fB--force\fR.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Generic error.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error (bad flags, bad arguments).
.TP
.B 3
Not found (app, reserved entry, or port).
.TP
.B 4
Port range exhausted.
.TP
.B 5
Lock acquisition timed out.
.TP
.B 6
Conflict (already claimed, size mismatch, overlap).
.TP
.B 7
Registry schema invalid.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SLIPWAY_REGISTRY
Override the registry path (default: \fI~/.config/slipway/registry.json\fR).
.TP
.B SLIPWAY_LOCK_TIMEOUT_DS
Lock acquisition timeout, in tenths of a second (default: 100 = 10s).
.TP
.B SLIPWAY_LIB
Override the commands library path. Default: \fI../lib/slipway/commands.sh\fR
relative to the resolved binary path.
.TP
.B SLIPWAY_DEBUG
If non-zero, log internal decisions (lock acquisition, allocation) to
stderr.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/slipway/registry.json
Default registry. Override via \fBSLIPWAY_REGISTRY\fR.
.TP
.I ~/.config/slipway/registry.json.lock
Lockdir. Contains a \fBpid\fR file naming the holder. Remove manually
(\fBdoctor --repair\fR, or \fBrm -rf\fR) if a holder crashed.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project homepage: https://github.com/primestageprime/slipway
